---
title: Download Offline Models
description: Download a wide variety of models to use offline with Local AI 
---

Msty lets you download a wide variety of models to use offline with Local AI. You can choose to install any model from Ollama or import supported `gguf` model files from HuggingFace, directly within Msty.

## Featured Models
Msty provides a list of hand-picked models that makes it easy for users to quickly download a model better suited for tasks such as coding, text generation, multilingual support, image to text generation, etc. The models vary by size, parameters, and use case.

To go to the Featured Models page, click on Local AI from the sidebar.

::image-card{src="/how-to/download-offline-models/local-ai-models.webp" alt="Featured models in Local AI"}
::

## Model Hub
For our more advanced users, Msty provides a Model Hub where you can search for and install any model from Ollama and HuggingFace.

In the Model Hub, you can download additional models or their variants that are not in the Featured Models section. Like in the Featured Models, you can find a wide variety of models that differ by size, parameters, and use case.

To go to the Model Hub, open Local AI from the sidebar and click on 'Download More Models...' button from the page header.

::image-card{src="/how-to/download-offline-models/model-hub.webp" alt="Model Hub to search for Ollama and HuggingFace models"}
::

Once the Model Hub is open, you can choose to search for models in Ollama or HuggingFace from the search bar dropdown and install the model you are looking for.

