---
title: Onboarding
description: Get started with Msty in a few easy steps
---

Welcome to Msty! Setting up is simple and quick. Follow the steps below to get started with local AI models, connect to remote providers, or use pre-existing models.

::steps
  ### Choose an onboarding option
  When you first open Msty, you will be greeted by the onboarding page. This page offers three primary setup options:
  ::tabs
    ::div{label="Setup Local AI" icon="tabler:device-desktop-down"}
      #### Setup Local AI
      This option will download and install a local AI model on your machine.
      - By default, Msty will download Google’s Gemma 2 model, which requires approximately 1.6 GB of disk space.  
      - You can also click on the **'Gemma 2'** label to reveal a dropdown menu that allows you to select a different AI model for downloading during onboarding.

      Once you’ve selected a local AI model, the system will begin downloading and installing it. This process may take some time depending on your internet speed and the model size.

      ::alert{type="info" icon="tabler:info-circle"}
      Note: If you onboarded with `Setup Local AI` and want to switch to using models from Ollama, see [how to use existing Ollama models](/how-to-guides/use-existing-ollama-models) in Msty.
      ::
    ::

    ::div{label="Add Remote Models Provider" icon="tabler:world-bolt"}
      #### Add Remote Models Provider
      This option allows you to quickly onboard with a variety of remote AI models. To do so, simply enter the [API key](/how-to-guides/find-api-keys) for your chosen provider and select the desired models. Available providers include:  
      - Open AI  
      - Azure Open AI :aurum-tag
      - Claude  
      - Perplexity  
      - Google Gemini  
      - Mistral AI  
      - Groq AI  
      - Open Router  
      - Any other Open AI compatible models provider
    ::

    ::div{label="Use Ollama Models (Advanced)" icon="simple-icons:ollama"}
      #### Use Ollama Models (Advanced)
      For advanced users who have Ollama installed, Msty will automatically detect it and allow you to continue with them during onboarding. This enables you to onboard using your **existing models**, providing an even faster setup experience.
    ::
  ::

  ::image-plain{src="/getting-started/installation/onboarding.webp" alt="Onboarding options in Msty"}
  ::

  ### Start chatting
  After the setup is complete, you will be redirected to the chats page, where you can begin chatting with the AI model(s) you've just set up.

::
