---
title: Linux Issues
description: Troubleshooting common issues on Linux
---

## App is not starting
This is most likely because of permissions issue esp. if you are sharing Ollama's models path with Msty.
Ollama was most probably installed with `sudo` and the models directory is owned by root. Msty doesn't have permission to read the models directory. To fix this, you can do one of the following:

1. Change the models directory's permission to be readable by all users:
    ```bash
    sudo chmod -R a+r /usr/share/ollama/.ollama/models
    ```
    This will make the models directory readable by all users on the system.
2. Change the models directory's owner to your user:
    ```bash
    sudo chown -R $USER /usr/share/ollama/.ollama/models
    ```
    This will change the owner of the models directory to your user.
3. If you are using `OLLAMA_MODELS` environment variable to set the models path, then you can change the models path to a directory that you have permission to read. For example, you can create a directory in your home directory and set the models path to that directory.
And then in Msty, update the models path to the new directory by following the steps in [Use existing Ollama Models](/how-to/use-existing-ollama-models).

## Failed to install model - permission denied
Similar to the above issue, this is most likely because of permissions issue. The models directory is not accessible by Msty. Please follow the steps in the above section to fix this issue.

## Cannot save an API Key or add a remote provider
For security reason, Msty saves an encrypted version of your API key in your OS's keychain. If you are having trouble saving an API key or adding a remote provider, it is most likely one of the following reasons:

1. You don't have a keychain setup on your system.
2. The keychain is not enabled.
3. If you are running KDE, ensure that kwallet is enabled and running.
